Modal type theory (#701)
UniMath/agda-unimath: src/modal-type-theory/flat-sharp-adjunction.lagda.md

  ap-♭-unit-♯ : ♭ A → ♭ (♯ A)
  ap-♭-unit-♯ = ap-♭ unit-♯

  is-section-ap-♭-unit-♯ : ap-♭-elim-♯ ∘ ap-♭-unit-♯ ~ id
  is-section-ap-♭-unit-♯ (cons-♭ x) =
    crisp-ap cons-♭ (compute-crisp-elim-♯ x)

  is-retraction-ap-♭-unit-♯ : ap-♭-unit-♯ ∘ ap-♭-elim-♯ ~ id
  is-retraction-ap-♭-unit-♯ (cons-♭ x) =
    crisp-ap cons-♭ (uniqueness-crisp-elim-♯ x)

  is-equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯ : is-equiv ap-♭-elim-♯
  pr1 (pr1 is-equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯) = ap-♭-unit-♯
  pr2 (pr1 is-equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯) = is-section-ap-♭-unit-♯
  pr1 (pr2 is-equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯) = ap-♭-unit-♯
  pr2 (pr2 is-equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯) = is-retraction-ap-♭-unit-♯

  equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯ : ♭ (♯ A) ≃ ♭ A
  pr1 equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯ = ap-♭-elim-♯
  pr2 equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯ = is-equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯

  is-equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯ : is-equiv ap-♭-unit-♯
  pr1 (pr1 is-equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯) = ap-♭-elim-♯
  pr2 (pr1 is-equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯) = is-retraction-ap-♭-unit-♯
  pr1 (pr2 is-equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯) = ap-♭-elim-♯
  pr2 (pr2 is-equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯) = is-section-ap-♭-unit-♯

  equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯ : ♭ A ≃ ♭ (♯ A)
  pr1 equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯ = ap-♭-unit-♯
  pr2 equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯ = is-equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯
```

### Sharp after flat

```agda
module _
  {@♭ l : Level} {@♭ A : UU l}

>   where

Author: I wonder if the new `--level-universe` business allows us to omit crispness assumptions on universe levels. I remember this was the only obstruction to showing that the sharp modality was a higher modality using one or two less axioms somewhere.

  sf1 : ♯ (♭ A) → ♯ A
  sf1 = rec-♯ A (unit-♯ ∘ counit-♭)

  sf2 : ♯ A → ♯ (♭ A)
  sf2 =
    rec-♯
      ( ♭ A)
      ( promote
        ( λ _ → ♯ (♭ A))
        ( λ _ → is-codiscrete-♯ (♭ A))
        ( λ x → unit-♯ (cons-♭ x)))

  -- is-section-sf2 : sf1 ∘ sf2 ~ id

>   -- is-section-sf2 = {!  ind-♯ ? ?!}

Author: TODO

# The flat-sharp adjunction

```agda
{-# OPTIONS --cohesion --flat-split #-}

module modal-type-theory.flat-sharp-adjunction where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import foundation.action-on-identifications-functions
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.equivalences
open import foundation.function-extensionality
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.homotopies
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.locally-small-types
open import foundation.multivariable-sections
open import foundation.transport-along-identifications
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import modal-type-theory.codiscrete-types
open import modal-type-theory.crisp-identity-types
open import modal-type-theory.flat-modality
open import modal-type-theory.sharp-modality

open import orthogonal-factorization-systems.locally-small-modal-operators
open import orthogonal-factorization-systems.modal-induction
open import orthogonal-factorization-systems.uniquely-eliminating-modalities
```

</details>

## Idea

We postulate that the [flat modality](modal-type-theory.flat-modality.md) `♭` is

> a crisp left adjoint to the

Reviewer: Do we have a notion of crisp adjunction?

Author: What do you mean? We haven't formalized such a thing.

[sharp modality](modal-type-theory.sharp-modality.md) `♯`.

In [The sharp modality](modal-type-theory.sharp-modality.md) we postulated that

> `♯` is a modal operator that has a

Reviewer: Should modal operator be hyperlinked here?

[modal induction principle](orthogonal-factorization-systems.modal-induction.md).
In the file [Codiscrete types](modal-type-theory.codiscrete-types.md), we

> postulated that the subuniverse of sharp modal types has appropriate closure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
postulated that the [subuniverse](foundation.subuniverses.md) of sharp modal types has appropriate closure
```

or link to foundation-core if it exists

  is-retraction-ap-♭-unit-♯ (cons-♭ x) =
    crisp-ap cons-♭ (uniqueness-crisp-elim-♯ x)

  is-equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯ : is-equiv ap-♭-elim-♯
  pr1 (pr1 is-equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯) = ap-♭-unit-♯
  pr2 (pr1 is-equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯) = is-section-ap-♭-unit-♯
  pr1 (pr2 is-equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯) = ap-♭-unit-♯
  pr2 (pr2 is-equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯) = is-retraction-ap-♭-unit-♯

  equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯ : ♭ (♯ A) ≃ ♭ A
  pr1 equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯ = ap-♭-elim-♯
  pr2 equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯ = is-equiv-ap-♭-elim-♯

  is-equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯ : is-equiv ap-♭-unit-♯
  pr1 (pr1 is-equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯) = ap-♭-elim-♯
  pr2 (pr1 is-equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯) = is-retraction-ap-♭-unit-♯
  pr1 (pr2 is-equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯) = ap-♭-elim-♯
  pr2 (pr2 is-equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯) = is-section-ap-♭-unit-♯

  equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯ : ♭ A ≃ ♭ (♯ A)
  pr1 equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯ = ap-♭-unit-♯
  pr2 equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯ = is-equiv-ap-♭-unit-♯
```

### Sharp after flat

```agda
module _
  {@♭ l : Level} {@♭ A : UU l}
  where

  ap-♯-counit-♭ : ♯ (♭ A) → ♯ A
  ap-♯-counit-♭ = rec-♯ (unit-♯ ∘ counit-♭)

  ap-♯-cons-♭ : ♯ A → ♯ (♭ A)
  ap-♯-cons-♭ =
    rec-♯
      ( crisp-rec-♯
        ( ♯ (♭ A))
        ( is-codiscrete-♯ (♭ A))
        ( λ x → unit-♯ (cons-♭ x)))
```

> It remains to show that these two are inverses to eachother.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It remains to show that these two are inverses to each other.
```
